# 1. AstronoSphere Eco System

This document describes the main logical components, work products and data storage inside the AstronoSphere Eco System (AES).
Central part is the AstronoData component which stores the data of the system in various Data Bases. 
This document also describes the work data and work flow in AES.

# 2. MeeusScenarioFactory (MSF)

The MeeusScenarioFactory implements various of the approximation algorithms for some of the interesting scenario categories. The algorithms provided by Meeus are rough estimators for astronomical events (see Appendix A.1).
A scenario designer decides which scenarios are supposed to be created by the MeeusScanarioFactors. These rough estimates are considered not more than ScenarioCandidates for the ObservationCatalog.

Like the MeeusScenarioFactory, other Scenario-Generatos can provide such candidates. 

These Scenario generators provide the **data** for the scenario (e.g. Julian Date of a dedicated event for which the EphemerisFactory is supposed to determine the reference data).
Note that the Scenario generators do not implement any part of the scenario header.
The data generated by the Meeus Scenario factory is stored in the folder 01_CandidateDat/Created, which is kind of an "Inbox" for newly generated scenario candidates.

# 3. Scenario Candidates

Scenario candidates are stored in AstronoData/01_CandidateData/Created.
This is an example of a scenario candidate:

{
  "Event": {
    "Category": "Inferior Conjunction",
    "ApproximateJD": 2449297.644,
    "Source": "Meeus, Astronomical Algorithms, 2nd ed., Ex. 36a, p. 252",
    "Comment": "d/dt Delta/R has zero crossing in Geocentric Coordinates"
  },
  "Core": {
    "Time": {
      "StartJD": 2449296.644,
      "StopJD": 2449298.644,
      "StepDays": 0.0417,
      "TimeScale": "TDB"
    },
    "Observer": {
      "Type": "Geocentric",
      "Body": "Earth"
    },
    "Targets": [
      "Mercury"
    ],
    "Frame": {
      "Type": "GeoEcliptic",
      "Epoch": "J2000"
    },
    "Corrections": {
      "LightTime": false,
      "Aberration": false,
      "Precession": false,
      "Nutation": false
    }
  }
}


# 4. Scenario Selection Step

ScenarioCandidates are being reviewed by the Maintainer of the ObservationCatalog in a manual step. He not only maintains the Catalog itself but also the Governance of the Scenario generation.
If a candidate gets approval for the catalog, the maintainer moves them to the folder AstronoData/01_CandidateData/released. 

# 5. ScenarioHeaderGenerator (SHG)

The ScenarioGenerator is another tool which eventually completes the header definition:

1) SchemaVersion
2) ScenarioID
3) CatalogNumber
4) CoreHash

# 5.1 Input

Reviewed Scenario Candidates from AstronoData/01_CandidateData/released which require completion of the ScenarioHeader.

## 5.2 Logic

The SHG generates ScenarioID, CatalogNumber and CoreHash. It also generates all the other fields of the ScenarioHeader as "null"-Elements. 

### 5.2.1 ScenarioID

The ScenarioID is generated based by the SHG.

### 5.2.2 CatalogNumber

The catalog number is defined as N = (max(existing CatalogNumber) of elements in the ObservationCatalog. That means, every new scenario stored in the ObservationCatalog increments N.
The catalog number shall have a prefix "AS-".
The second part has six digits including leading zeros. It contains the catalog number and it is (N+1). Say (N+1) is 492. Then the second part shall be 000492. The three leading zeros are completing the six digits of the second part.
The resultsing CatalogNumber therefore is: AS-<leadingZeros><N+1)>
The SHG scans all the available elements in the folder stronoData/02_ObservationCatalog/released. Based on the maximum number of released elements, the algorithm determines the new running number (=CatalogNumber) of the Scenario.

Note: the maintainer must secure, that a new SHG run may only take place, if no "unreleased" elements are stored in AstronoData/02_ObservationCatalog/created.

### 5.2.3 CoreHash

The Core Hash is calculted as specified in the leading document 02_AstronoSphere_ScenarioDefinition_v1.5.md.

## 5.3 Output

The SHG writes the created data (ID xy) to the "Inbox" of the ObservationCatalog in AstronoData/02_ObservationCatalog/created. 
Note: The ScenarioHeaderGenerator shall be the one and only instance which can add new scenarios to the ObservationCatalog. For other components of AstronoSphere, write access shall be denied.

# 6. ObservationCatalog

## 6.1 Input

New created data (ID xy)

## 6.2 Scenario Release

In a first step, the maintainer replaces the "null"-elements of the header in a manual step. 
After completion, he sets the status to "released".
In the last step, he moves the Svenario (ID xy) to the folder AstronoData/02_ObservationCatalog/released.

The ObservationCatalog contains the released Scenarios. That implies, all required fields in the Scenario definition (header and data) are filled reasonably. The number of elements in the ObservationCatalog is (N+1), e.g. 492 as described in the example in Section 5.1.

## 6.3 Output 

Released scenario  (ID xy)

# 7 AstronoMeasurement

AstronoMeasurement defines the data which are to be requested by the TruthFactories. It links the Pipeline Levels Lx (x=0, 1, ..., 5, ...) to the TruthFactor requests.
The required levels are provided in a special field "DataSets" of the DatasetHeader.
If the "DataSets" are empty, the TruthFactory decides which default values are to be used. During development, while in the Milestone M1 phase, this default value is "L0".


# 8. TruthFactories

## 8.1 Input

Released scenario (ID xy) in AstronoData/02_ObservationCatalog/released.

## 8.2 Logic

TruthFactories need an additional layer to import secnarios. The import layer shall reject scenarios, which are not in Status.Maturity == release. 
The Truth factories derive all necessary information from the scenario header and request the reference data from the external source they are connected to.
The Truth factories are also filling the DatasetHeader. This is because a Scenario is a physical event, whereas the TruthFactory conducts one or more **measurements** with this element. AstronoMeasurement specifies, which measurements are to be carried out with this scenario. In other words, it describes, which Layers L0, ..., Lx of the Astronometria ephemerides pipeline shall be tested.


For EphemerisFactory, the format of the output reference data shall be:
{
  "ScenarioRef": {
  "ScenarioID": "...",
  "CoreHash": "...",
  "CatalogNumber": "AS-000001"
  }
 
  "DatasetHeader": { ... },

  "Data": [ 
	{
	"JD": double,
	"Position": { "X": ..., "Y": ..., "Z": ... },
	"Velocity": { "VX": ..., "VY": ..., "VZ": ... }
	}
  ]
}

The file name looks like this:

File setup rule: <PrimaryTarget>-<ScenarioCategory>-<ObserverMode>-<TimeScale>-<StartJD>-<Level>.json

Components
PrimaryTarget     = first Element form Targets[]
ScenarioCategory  = Event.Category (without space)
ObserverMode      = GEO | HELIO
TimeScale         = e.g. TDB
StartJD           = Core.Time.StartJD (format: 0.###)
Level             = L0…L5

Rules
- No Spaces → CamelCase or Delete
- No special characters
- deterministic determination from scenario
- NO StopJD in Name

Handled in a central fileNameHandler.cs.

## 8.3 Output

The TruthFactory writes the data (ID xy, DataSet xz) to the folder AstronoData/03_ReferenceData/Runs/Run. 
Before it writes the data there, it moves existing "Runs/Run"-files to "Runs/LastRun".
It checks, if corresponding data in "Runs/Run" and "Runs/LastRun" are identical.
If this is the case, the data are automatically written to the folder AstronoData/03_ReferenceData/Released. 
IF the data are not identical, a scientific review of the Maintainer must happen.

# 9. FactoryReferenceData


AstronoData/03_ReferenceData/Released contains released Reference Data (DataSet xz) of a scenario (ID xy). That means, it contains released data (ID xy, DataSet xz).


# 10. Astronometria

## 10.1 Input

- released Scenario (ID xy)
- released ReferenceData (ID xy)

## 10.2 Logic 

Astronometria is the Engine of AstroSphere. Its Testing Stack picks released ScenarioData (e.g. ID xy), runs the Astronometria algorithms and calculates Astronometria Data (ID xy). Internally, it validates if the delta between its calculated AstronometriaData and the FactoryReferenceData is within the tolerances of the scenario. This is the regression part of Astronometria.
Moreover, it stores its Run data in Astronometria Data.

## 10.3 Output 

Astronometria Simulation Data (ID xy)


# 11. Astronometria Data

## 11.1 Input

Astronometria Simulation Data (ID xy)

## 11.2 Logic

Astronometria stores its Data in the AstronometriaData storage.
Astronometria wriths its current data in a sub folder called "Run".
A compare tool can be used for regression and compare the data in "Run" with the data in "LastRun". Only if the data are consistent, the data shall be made available to the next stage of the chain.
"Making available" is done by the Maintainer of the data base.

## 11.3 Output

Released AstronometriaData (ID xy)

# 12. Analysis Tool

## 12.1 Input

Released AstronometriaData (ID xy)
Released ReferenceData (ID xy)

## 12.2 Logic

Based on the Data from Astronmetria and the factory reference data, an Analysis Tool (e.g. based on Python, potentially even extrnal) may conduct statistical analysis (diff, mean, 95Perc, trend, ...) and create a dedicated analysis report for a given scenario (ID xy).

## 12.3 Output

Analysis Report (ID xy)

# 12. Self extending path

The Maintainer may review the analysis reports and determine interesing cases for new simulation scenarios. This final step may push new edge case scenario creation.


# Appendix

## A.1 Scenario Categories

This is a list of scenario categories interesting for astronomical computation. The list is not exhaustive.
1.  Opposition
2.  Conjunction
3.  Inferior Conjunction
4.  Greatest Elongation
5.  Perihelion
6.  Aphelion
7.  Node Crossing
8.  Quadrant Crossing
9.  Stationary Point
10. Zenith Crossing
11. Horizon Crossing
12. Maximum Phase Angle
13. Eclipse Geometry